So we're able to create users,
now the question is, what does logging a user actually mean,
how do we store that information and how do we then use it to allow a user to create a post or forbid
it?
This actually works differently for Single Page Applications than it works for normal full-stack applications.
In Single Page Applications like our Angular app,
we have our back-end with some routes, products, product,
that's not our app here, that's any app you might be building.
Now you typically send requests through the HTTP client as you learned.
Now some of these routes might be protected, for example you might be able to get a list of products
but you can't create a new product, at least not if you're not authenticated.
Now in a traditional full-stack app, you would have used a session for this.
So if a user logs in with his credentials, you would create a session on the server,
return the session ID in a cookie to the client, so to the browser, store it there
and for every future request, you would automatically send that cookie and validate it on the server and
grant access if the cookie ID matches a valid session on your server,
that's how it works in a nutshell.
For a Single Page Application, this does not work because the Single Page Application back-ends, our API
here is stateless,
so it's not connected to the front-end app, it doesn't care about that app.
That is why we have two separate servers right,
we have a Node and our Angular server and we manage them in the same project but they actually are totally
separated from a logical perspective.
We could connect any app to our rest API, we could connect a mobile app. So the Angular app is decoupled
from our Node back-end when it comes to this, it just sends requests to these URLs but our server
doesn't store any information about the app and therefore, the server also doesn't store any sessions.
So we have to find a different way of storing that authentication information and we do typically do
that with a token, a so-called JSON Web Token.
Now that is a token, like a package of information you could say, which is hashed into one long string,
which is generated on the server upon a successful login. That token is sent back to the browser where
you can store it in your angular app, in a cookie or in the local storage, an API you can access through
your browser. And this token is then attached to all future requests as part of the URL or as a header
and that token can't be faked,
it's hashed in a way that's impossible to break
basically. You can unhash it, you can look into it that's fine but if you edit one character in the
data that is part of the token, the entire hash will change.
So you can't fake that, you can't change it and you also can't guess it. Only the server can validate
that this token is valid because the server was who created that token, only the server knows the exact
algorithm.
So we send that token with any future request and that then actually gives you access because the server
can validate that token and only requests that have a valid token are allowed access, other requests are
rejected.
This is how you typically handle authentication in Single Page Applications and this is how we will
handle it in this course
and if that's way too theoretic for you, no worries,
we'll dive into the practical implementation right now.